docs/code_owners.md, before:

This file is a list of the people responsible for ensuring that patches for a
particular part of Torch-MLIR are reviewed, either by themself or by someone
else. They are also the gatekeepers for their part of Torch-MLIR, with the final
word on what goes in or not.

This file follows the conventions of LLVM's
[CODE_OWNERS.TXT](https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/blob/main/llvm/CODE_OWNERS.TXT)
and Clang's
[CodeOwners.rst](https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/blob/main/clang/CodeOwners.rst).

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### All parts not covered by anyone else

- Stella Laurenzo (@stellaraccident)
- Sean Silva (@silvasean) - emeritus

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### `torch` dialect and other core IR pieces, Python bindings/API, JIT IR importer

- Stella Laurenzo (@stellaraccident)

### TorchToLinalg, Shape inference, Dtype refinement, MaximizeValueSemantics

- Ramiro Leal-Cavazos (@ramiro050)

### CI / Build system / Packaging

- Anush Elangovan (@powderluv)

### TorchToTOSA

- Eric Kunze (@eric-k256)
- Suraj Sudhir (@sjarus)

### TorchToStablehlo

- Tianyo Kwok (@tanyokwok)
- Xiafei Qiu (@qiuxiafei)
- Ziheng Jiang (@ZihengJiang)
- Jiawei Wu (@Vremold)

### LTC

- Antonio Kim (@antoniojkim)
- Ke Deng (@ke1337)

### Bazel build

- Sambhav Jain (@sjain-stanford)
- Ahmed Taei (@asaadaldien)

### LLVM Integrate

- Ashay Rane (@ashay)

Commit message:

Add access-request issue template and update documentation (#4439)
This creates a simple process for having new members request repository
permissions.

I think having an issue template is the most reasonable, since we should
be able to assign these issues to someone relevant and mark them as
completed when the access is granted.

I've also added myself as code owner for various parts of the project,
and marked @ramiro050 as emeritus for the torch-to-linalg path. In the
docs, I've also indicated that contributors should simply submit a pull
request to add themselves as a code owner.

---------

Signed-off-by: zjgarvey <zjgarvey@gmail.com>

docs/code_owners.md, after:

This file is a list of the people responsible for ensuring that patches for a
particular part of Torch-MLIR are reviewed, either by themself or by someone
else. They are also the gatekeepers for their part of Torch-MLIR, with the final
word on what goes in or not.

This file follows the conventions of LLVM's
[CODE_OWNERS.TXT](https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/blob/main/llvm/CODE_OWNERS.TXT)
and Clang's
[CodeOwners.rst](https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/blob/main/clang/CodeOwners.rst).

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### All parts not covered by anyone else

- Stella Laurenzo (@stellaraccident)
- Zach Garvey (@zjgarvey)
- Sean Silva (@silvasean) - emeritus

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### `torch` dialect and other core IR pieces, Python bindings/API, JIT IR importer

- Stella Laurenzo (@stellaraccident)
- Zach Garvey (@zjgarvey)

### TorchToLinalg, Shape inference, Dtype refinement, MaximizeValueSemantics

- Ramiro Leal-Cavazos (@ramiro050) - emeritus
- Zach Garvey (@zjgarvey)

### CI / Build system / Packaging / [Release](https://github.com/llvm/torch-mlir-release)

- Anush Elangovan (@powderluv)
- Maybe you!*

### TorchToTOSA

- Eric Kunze (@eric-k256)
- Suraj Sudhir (@sjarus)

### TorchToStablehlo

- Tianyo Kwok (@tanyokwok)
- Xiafei Qiu (@qiuxiafei)
- Ziheng Jiang (@ZihengJiang)
- Jiawei Wu (@Vremold)

### LTC

- Antonio Kim (@antoniojkim)
- Ke Deng (@ke1337)
- Maybe you!*

### Bazel build

- Sambhav Jain (@sjain-stanford)
- Ahmed Taei (@asaadaldien)
- Maybe you!*

### LLVM Integrate

- Zach Garvey (@zjgarvey) **
- Ashay Rane (@ashay) **
- Maybe you!*

### Roll Pytorch

- Zach Garvey (@zjgarvey) **


*Please submit a pull request to add/remove your name as a code owner. Code owners should have a well-documented history and interest in maintaing the project.
**This job is not the sole-responsibility of these people. If you are an active contributor, please help with updating core dependencies.
